.TH SERIALVIEW 1

.SH NAME
serialview \- Terminal emulator for uCsim


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B serialview
\-i <filename> \-o <filename> \-L n \-a <pattern> \-A <answer> \-IOh


.SH DESCRIPTION
serialview is a simple terminal emulator which can be used with uCsim.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-i filename
.I filename
is the pipe to the controllers's serial input. Characters typed into
the input panel will be written to this file.

.TP
.B \-o filename
.I filename
is the pipe to the controllers's serial output. Content of this file
is prosented on the output panel.

.TP
.B \-I
Use hexadecimal filter on input. Only hexadecimal characters are
accepted in input panel. Two characters are combined into a
hexadecimal code and value is written to the input pipe.

.TP
.B \-O
Use hexadecimal filter on output. Content of output pipe is presented
as a hexadecimal dump. \-L option can be used to set how many bytes
are printed in one line.

.TP
.B \-a pattern
.I pattern
is a string which is recognized in output stream and automatically
answered by sending an answer string (see \-A option). String can be
formatted as a C string, non-asci characters can be escaped in C
style.

.TP
.B \-A answer
.I answer
is a string which is sent when a pattern (see \-a option) is detected
in simulator's output. This answer string is written to the input pipe
but not shown in the input panel.

.TP
.B \-L n
Set line length of hexadecimal dump in output panel (default=8).

.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.

.PP
When no options are provided the input and output pipes are created in
.B /tmp
and named respectively
.B in
and
.B out


.SH "SEE ALSO"
sdcc(1), ucsim(1).


.SH AUTHOR
Timothy Hurman
