.TH UCSIM 1

.SH NAME
uCsim \- Micro\-controller simulator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ucsim_i8051
.br
.B ucsim_51
.br
.B ucsim_xa
.br
.B ucsim_z80
.br
.B ucsim_tlcs
.br
.B ucsim_rxk
.br
.B ucsim_i8085
.br
.B ucsim_avr
.br
.B ucsim_pdk
.br
.B ucsim_st7
.br
.B ucsim_stm8
.br
.B ucsim_p1516
.br
.B ucsim_m6800
.br
.B ucsim_m6809
.br
.B ucsim_m68hc08
.br
.B ucsim_m68hc11
.br
.B ucsim_m68hc12
.br
.B ucsim_mos6502
.br
.B ucsim_plaze
.br
.B ucsim_f8
.br
.RS
.B \-t cpu_type
.B \-X freq[k|M]
.B \-R seed
.B \-C cfg_file
.B \-e command
.B \-c file
.B \-z portnum
.B \-Z portnum
.B \-k portnum
.B \-s file
.B \-S options
.B \-I options
.B \-p prompt
.B \-P
.B \-o colors
.B \-l
.B \-b
.B \-B
.B \-g
.B \-G
.B \-a nr
.B \-w
.B \-V
.B \-v
.B \-H
.B \-h
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
uCsim is a microcontroller, microprocessor simulator for several
processor families. It can be started as
.B ucsim_XXXX
command, where XXXX specifies the simulated processor type. Eg.
.I ucsim_51
starts Intel MCS51 microcontroller simulator,
.I ucsim_z80
starts Zilog Z80 microprocessor simulator, etc.

.SH OPTIONS

.B Options of the command

.TP
.B \-t cpu_type
Specifies type of the controller. Use \-H to list possible values.

.TP
.B \-X freq[k|M]
XTAL frequency in Hz, Use
.I k
or
.I M
suffix to specify frequency in kHz or MHz.

.TP
.B \-R seed
Set the random number generator seed.

.TP
.B \-C file
Read initial commands from
.I file
and execute them.

.TP
.B \-e command
Execute
.I command
at program startup (before config file).

.TP
.B \-c file
Open command console on
.I file
(use \- for std in/out).

.TP
.B \-z portnum
Listen
.I portnum
for command console.

.TP
.B \-Z portnum
Listen
.I portnum
for command console (no console on stdio).

.TP
.B \-k portnum
Use
.I localhost:portnum
for serial I/O. This option is obsolete, use \-S instead.

.TP
.B \-s file
Connect serial interface uart0 to
.I file
This option is obsolete, use \-S instead.

.TP
.B \-S options
.I options
is a comma separated list of options according to serial interface. Know options are:
.br
.I uart=nr
number of uart (default=0)
.br
.I in=file
serial input will be read from file named `file'.
.br
.I out=file
serial output will be written to `file'.
.br
.I port=nr
use localhost:nr as server for serial line.
.br
.I iport=nr
use localhost:nr as server for serial input.
.br
.I oport=nr
use localhost:nr as server for serial onput.
.br
.I raw
perform non-interactive communication even on tty.

.TP
.B \-I options
.I options
is a comma separated list of options according to simulator
interface. Known options are:
.br
.I if=memory[address]
turn on interface on given memory location.
.br
.I in=file
specify input file for IO.
.br
.I out=file
specify output file for IO.
.PP

.TP
.B \-p prompt
Specify string for prompt.

.TP
.B \-P
Prompt is a null ('\\0') character.
.PP

.TP
.B \-o colors
List of color specification: what=colspec,... where colspec is :
separated list of color options e.g.: prompt=b:white:black (bold white
on black).

.TP
.B \-l
Use colors of the light theme (default is dark).
.PP

.TP
.B \-b
Black & white (non-color) theme.

.TP
.B \-B
Beep on breakpoints.

.TP
.B \-g
Go, start simulation.

.TP
.B \-G
Go, start simulation, quit on stop.

.TP
.B \-a nr
Specify size of variable space (default=256).

.TP
.B \-w
Writable flash.

.TP
.B \-V
Verbose mode.

.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode (implies -b).

.TP
.B \-v
Print out version number and quit.

.TP
.B \-H
Print out types of known CPUs and quit.

.TP
.B \-h
Print out this help and quit.

.SH EXAMPLES
None yet.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sdcc(1), sdcdb(1), serialview(1).

.SH BUGS
Probably many.

.SH AUTHORS, CONTRIBUTORS
Daniel Drotos,
Gunar Holm,
Sandeep Dutta,
Salvador Eduardo Tropea,
Josef Wolf,
Stephane Meyer,
Larry Doolittle,
Timothy Hurman,
Karl-Max Wagner,
Edmar Wienskoski Jr,
Alexandre Frey,
Kaido Karner,
Kalr Bongers,
Alexis Pavlov,
Davine Zanni,
Anton Persson,
Nicolas Lesser,
Mike Jagdis,
Jiri Simek,
Zbynek Krivka,
Vaclav Peroutka,
Valentin Dudouyt,
Erik Petrich,
Leland Morrison,
Johan Knol.
